%{
  title: "Temps.WTF",
  tags:  ~s[elixir]
}
---

After watching the devastating wildfires in my homestate of California, and hearing about record temperatures faced there, I wanted a tool to visualize these conditions.


__tl;dr__ I built a thing: [temps.wtf](https://temps.wtf)

----

### What I learned

__Visualizing data is hard.__ Not only did I have to wrestle with figuring out the chart api, but there are so many facets, so many way that data can be interpeted.
I chose some, but doubtless, because I am presenting only record highs and lows, cruicial information about climate change is being lost.
This kind of thing is defintetly better left to experts.

__APIs are fickle.__ Beggars can't be choosers, and since the data is provided freely, I really have no right to complain. But even in paid APIs, the data can be... messy.
The biggest challenge in dealing with __this__ data is that many of the stations listed did not have any daily weather data.
Since there were a lot of stations, I didn't wan't to check ahead of time (though this may have been better).
I settled on an approach where if a station had no data, I would flag it in the database and remove it from station lists for future users.

__Remote databases are slow.__ Part of the deployment is loading all the stations from a CSV into the database. This happens very quickly on my home computer, but timed out when running against the remote database. $7 dollars a month only buys you so much. Likewise, overall performance on the deployed version is a bit slow.
